# Instagram Story for Fake Coffee Shop (fall 2021)

These mock advertisment postcards were created as an assignment for an Integrating Writing and Design Course. All photos used are from Unsplash and are allowed to be used freely for commercial and non-commercial purposes. The graphic being used as an icon for "the Hot Spot" is titled "Cafe", created by Flatart from the Noun Project. The following information about the creation process is pulled from the course's final portfolio design gloss on this piece:

"The goal of the Instagram Story assignment was to choose a client and design either a content-based or ad-based, 3-5 panel Instagram story. I opted for an ad-based story for a fake coffee shop called “the Hot Spot.” I imagined the shop as a local coffee roaster and café that would likely get labeled as a “hipster” coffee shop (for its interior design elements like exposed brick walls and wood-grain coffee bars). This dreamed-up brand struck me as something that would do very well on Instagram, because of the attention to detail in curating visually appealing spaces that these kind of coffee shops often have. Thus, my goal was to reflect the feel of a hipster coffee shop in the Instagram panel space. I used a series of high resolution, single-image panel backgrounds to highlight the wooden counter and ceramic coffee cup textures that set this brand apart from a more commercial coffee shops. I also used a very round sans serif typeface with lowercase lettering, along with less than 100% opacity text boxes, to soften the feel of everything and be more inviting. With the text boxes, I had them switch between the left and right side to give a speech bubble, back-and-forth feel, playing off the inviting exchange you might have with the barista when you order. I split up the ad text to further that conversational volley feel. Additionally, I put the logo of the brand in the bottom right corner to subtly reference the brand in each panel. I then made a more direct reference that includes the name in the final resolution panel of the story, leaving the brand firmly cemented in consumers’ minds. 

The actual advertisement text is meant to make the coffee shop feel approachable to everyone. Often, hipster coffee shops can feel a little exclusive to people who are not super into coffee, and I wanted this brand to feel more accessible to anybody who might want to try out a new place. The goal was to emphasize and give concrete examples of a wide range of options, including hot drinks, cold drinks, and food in a way that felt playful, instead of highbrow. The last panel that used a friendly-looking barista as its photo is meant to finalize this idea that all are welcome and encourage consumers to feel comfortable swiping up to interact with the call to action of stopping by later that day. 

With revision, I did some color editing of the logo in Photoshop to increase its contrast and visibility across the panels and cleaned up the type-on-a-path curves I had for the menu recommendations. I also swapped the feeling hot and feeling cold text, as it was pointed out to me that if you are feeling hot, you want a cold drink, and vice versa. Initially, I had meant it as “if you’re feeling like you want a cold drink, …”, but I realized that my wording did not get that idea across to consumers, so the switch made more sense.  On the final panel, I edited the swipe-up call from “tell us your favorite drink” to “tell us how you’re feeling, and we’ll match you with a drink”, another idea given to me in feedback. I liked that it felt more creative. As consumers, people already know their favorite drink. But they don’t know what the brand would recommend for them, and that mystery could lead to higher engagement out of curiosity. I added a small up arrow too, to further cue the consumer towards the action of swiping up. The biggest thing I did, though, was play with the text of the fourth panel to make the ad’s joke clearer. I wanted the fourth panel to be a poke at the times when life is hitting a little too hard, and one cup of coffee just does not cut it. However, in my initial draft, I had kept the clean alignment I had been repeating in all of the panels, which is directly contrary to the fourth panel’s messaging. The text saying “everything is falling apart”, but my initial draft visually said “everything is perfect”. I played with the text in revision to make it look like someone had shaken that panel up, and now everything was really falling apart. At a more subtle level, I tried to make it look like the barista holding two cups of coffee were catching the crumbling text and helping keep everything a little more together (to make the consumers feel like this is the place to go on a double-espresso-shot kind of day)."

This project was nominated for and featured in Pitt's 2022 [Digital Media Showcase](https://dmap.pitt.edu/showcase).
